
From <link>https://community.valleyair.org/media/3324/glossary-of-terms_12821.pdf</link>
- **AB 617** – Assembly Bill (AB) 617 (C. Garcia, Chapter 136, Statutes of 2017) directs the state and local air districts to identify communities in California that are exposed to high levels of air pollution and established the Community Air Protection Program. Air districts with input from residents and stakeholders are to develop community focused action plans and community air monitoring plans to address localized air pollution and reduce exposure to particulate matter and toxic air contaminants.
- **Black Carbon** – Black carbon is the sooty black material emitted from gasoline and diesel engines, and other sources that burn fossil fuel. It comprises a significant portion of particulate matter. Inhalation of black carbon is associated with health problems including respiratory and cardiovascular disease, cancer, and birth defects.
- **California Air Resources Board (CARB)** – The State of California agency responsible for air pollution control. Responsibilities include: establishing State ambient air quality standards, setting allowable emission levels for mobile sources of emissions and consumer products.
- **Cancer Risk** – The likelihood that a person will develop cancer during their lifetime.
- **Carbon Monoxide (CO)** - a colorless, odorless gas emitted from combustion processes like mobile sources.
- **Concentrations** – Pollution in the air is typically expressed as a concentration. A concentration is the amount that could be extracted from a given volume of air (like a cubic meter). For example, the amount of particulate matter concentrations in terms of “micrograms per cubic meter (μg/m3).” This is a measure of the amount of particulate matter collected if you were to draw a cubic meter of air through a clean filter, and then weigh the filter on a scale that can measure millionths of a gram. Today we would expect, on average, to be able to collect about 10 μg of PM2.5 from a cubic meter of ambient air.
